all right well hey everyone and welcome
to another edition of hello interviews
this is our chance to talk with leading
personalities and experts in the
industry today I've got the pleasure of
talking with Jordan of uh Jordan has no
life YouTube channel if you haven't
heard of Jordan has no life you should
definitely go check it out I'll include
a link in the description but Jordan has
a huge catalog of both technologies that
he's done deep Dives on as well as
breakdowns of common problems but I
really wanted to have him on the channel
because a i i really respect the content
and I I think that he does a great job
in explaining things but also I wanted
to talk to him a bit about his journey
in learning all of the different topics
that he's come into Jordan welcome to
the channel thanks for having me Stefan
it's been a pleasure I've been following
hello interview for a while and you guys
are doing great stuff as well so glad to
be on here well I I want to start off
with kind of an intro what made you
decide to start a system design YouTube
channel what was it that that prompted
this sure so I guess I have it kind of
in my channel description where uh the
short form of it is at some point I was
studying systems design myself the
reason being so back in my sophomore
year of college I had an interview with
with HubSpot for an internship and that
was the first time uh was ever asked the
systems design question and you know it
was a pretty simple one it was design
tiny URL and I I just was unable to do
anything yeah I did not really
understand how a database worked I
didn't really understand uh what
sharding was or replication or anything
like that I didn't really understand the
concept of you know certain locking
techniques and databases or you know not
modifying rows in place but adding new
rows to like do things like counting and
I came out of that interview and I was
like gosh I know I'm going to have to
learn this eventually So eventually I'm
going to have to get to this so I I
finished College basically with a
semester early and didn't have anything
to do before starting work so I was like
all right well I think uh yeah it it was
a great time but you know besides all
the extra drinking that I was doing I
think uh I spent a lot of time trying to
read uh ddia or designing data intensive
applications which is a great book
highly recommend it by Martin ketman but
as I was going through that it was also
super dense it still took me a really
really long time to get through and so I
was trying
to I did go cover to cover yeah I've
done that twice now and I've taken notes
on it and I think that's really how I
got this whole thing started is uh I
read that I took notes on that and then
I I put that on blind uh because I was
like you know what this was so Dance For
Me Maybe I can help some other people by
doing this and so people on the internet
were were pretty appreciative of that I
was also going on YouTube at the same
time starting to look up like ual
systems design interview questions and I
felt that a lot of the choices that
people were making in the videos weren't
really based in any you know logic from
that book or anything like that but more
so just kind of arbitrary reasoning from
someone who pretty much all the
programming I had done up to this point
was like based off YouTube tutorials
where you're building some website
you're using a Google Firebase database
and it takes a minute to spin up you
don't really have to make any decisions
you're not really building anything at
scale such that you need to make those
decisions and it was all these pet
projects so I think actually reading a
book like that and getting that type of
perspective really changed the way that
I thought about programming and then
going on YouTube and seeing kind of the
the videos that people have been putting
out in the past to try and explain those
decisions I was like there's clearly a
pretty big lack of depth here uh between
what I read in this book and what I see
on the internet you know at first I made
all these Shameless videos just
completely ripping off ddia to try and
help explain that and then eventually I
tried to reimplement a lot of the
problems that I saw in popular interview
books like rocking the systems design
interview
uh and and trying to use the logic that
I saw in ddia to to build those again
very cool well I one of the things that
I love about your channel is you go into
a lot of depth about various
Technologies I'd love to actually
understand how you learn these topics
before you teach them I think in some
sense being able to teach something is
is almost a higher bar than than being
able to apply it because you need to
really build a good mental model around
it what's your process for
learning so I think it kind of started
out like I was saying with just reading
the book that everyone told me to read
and the nice thing about that was right
off the bat that identified tens if not
hundreds of topics that I knew I wasn't
getting enough information on and needed
to learn more about and then from there
was just a matter of like okay I heard
about this system you offhandedly
mention a system like Cassandra or volti
B or Kafka or something like that and it
just became a matter of okay well I
understand this system exists I hear
plenty of Engineers talking about it uh
let me go ahead and try and look that up
a bit more so I think when it comes to a
new piece of technology what I find is
that when I go to a lot of their
official documentation websites it's
really easy to get lost in how many
buzzwords they're using and because at
the end of the day they have to Market
this technology even if it's open source
and so I I think the actual purpose of
it can get lost pretty easily so I find
that actually these like 10 minute
simple YouTube summaries of a given
technology are a really good place to
start and then after that once you
really understand why it exists in the
first place then you can look at the
documentation a little bit more or you
know if they have white papers that's
something I'm trying to get into a bit
more recently because I find that to be
very helpful and you know just dig into
it as much as possible chat GPT is also
very much your friend in these areas if
someone's written a good amount of text
about a piece of technology it's really
good at parsing that and summarizing it
for you so and if they have't it's good
about lying to it
exactly so yeah I mean I I feel like you
know just using the the internet and the
tools available at your disposal are
really good if you're you know if you're
not willing to to Google and and try and
figure out how something actually works
internally feel like you're going to
have a rough time learning how a new
technology might work definitely now
this process that you go through it
sounds like you identifi topics that you
don't understand you go deeper on them
would you say you use more of a breath
first or a depth first search as you're
going through this how do you decide
when you've gone deep in I think
definitely a breath first search as much
as I would love to do a depth first
search I feel like if I did a depth
first search I never would have gotten
to really cover anything when it comes
to like databases or distributed systems
or anything like that there's just so
much content that's been written about
it from literally multiple decades like
starting pretty much in the in the 70s
or the 80s with uh with databases coming
out at IBM and so at the end of the day
I feel like I could really really try
and dig deep into that but I'm also
trying to balance it with being
pragmatic and and learning about stuff
that's going to benefit my career and I
think getting a bit more breath has been
nice as well because like you mentioned
I'm still fairly early in my career it's
not like I've you know completely locked
into one particular area and so I think
having a lot of breath has been useful
because it can point me to what I may be
interested in working on it can just
give me a lot of high level ideas of you
know solutions for a problem and then I
can lazily learn about them right so if
it works someone says hey you know we
want to implement this one thing and you
know do it with stream processing rather
than being like okay well I know a ton
about one particular technology and only
rely on that I think it's better to have
a a high level understanding of a few
different ones and then use that to fuel
the Deep dive that you eventually do
have to take for a specific problem got
it so it sounds like it's curiosity
driven but maybe with this focus on
things that are going to be practical
for your future career opportunities is
that accurate yeah absolutely like it at
work I'm I recently switched on to like
a data engineering team doing software
development there and I think that uh a
lot of the videos that I've been making
recently reflect the things that I'm
interested in learning about definitely
definitely a curiosity aspect and I
think work is benefiting my YouTube
channel my YouTube channel is benefiting
work and it's it's a nice symbiosis to
have cool so you've taken a step back
recently I think you talked a little bit
about white papers where you're going to
focus more on like deep Dives rather
than design this system what motivated
that transition and have you learned in
in some sense differently now that
you're going deeper than kind of this
bread oriented solution design that you
had been doing previously when I was
just trying to build like systems at a
really high level and and make videos
for them at the end of the day those are
tailored towards a 40-minute systems
design interview or a 1hour system
design interview and even within my
videos frankly like I don't know that
you could get through all of that in a
40-minute interview like when you really
try and Implement these things there are
so many small details and so many small
engineering choices that I I glossed
over and the more that I started reading
these papers the more that I came to
understand that and one I think good
example of it would be uh partitioning
and like dealing with hot partitions uh
so if you're taking a database and you
have to Shard it out so you have
multiple different nodes that are
representing a subset of the key range
certain percentage with that database
are going to get a lot more low than
others and I feel like in most of my
systems designer interviews I'm like
okay well you might have hot partitions
but just make a bunch of small ones and
moving them around as time goes on and
the more that I read these papers the
more I come to understand how
challenging of a problem that actually
is in practice like much of the Amazon
Dynamo DB paper for example is about
dealing with hot partitions and and
similarly the original Amazon Dynamo uh
paper is also based around how are we
going to move partitions efficiently how
are we going to choose the ranges for
our partitions things like that so I
think there's a there's a lot of highle
details that I came to understand
through studying all these very abstract
problems but when you actually really
have to jump in and and build these
things uh you know it gets a lot more
complicated than that and I think
working a bit longer and having to like
actually come to make some of those
decisions myself made me realize that
like wow I I really need to to dig
deeper at times here because I'm just
not thinking of things with enough
complexity gotta so I guess through your
career the depth required for you
personally actually increased and as a
necess this is also the the coverage
that you brought to the table well
Jordan I I think you covered a lot of
ground over the last several years and
it sounds like you've got a pretty good
idea of kind of where you started and
where you you're you're at now looking
back on all your learning that you
you've done what advice would you give
to people who are relatively new to
system design we have a lot of folks who
come to hello interview and they've got
a system design interview coming up and
they've never designed a system at scale
they kind of feel like they're out of
their depth already what would you
suggest for that yeah I I don't know if
I can give like a be all end all best
way to learn but I think I could
definitely give a a way that many people
do attempt to learn and say it's not the
best one which is to just be like okay
I've got a systems design interview
coming up in a month or something I've
never really done this before so let me
go look up all the common problems and
try and figure those out because I think
that right off the bat if you're fairly
new to thinking about these types of
problems the the logic and the reasoning
that uh people give in these videos if
if there's any at all is not really
going to reflect it might be lost on you
so if I choose a particular database and
then I give some reason for choosing it
there are certain properties of it that
make it better for like a lot of wrs or
a lot of reads or something like that
and you don't have more prerequisite
knowledge there then I think it could be
really tough to understand what's going
on in that video and if your interviewer
challenges you I think you might be in a
bit more trouble so I feel like it helps
a lot to go through the the quote
unquote like fundamental concepts or
building blocks of learning that aren't
necessarily specific to any one of these
particular problems but are more so
specific to all of them or or helpful
for all of them really try and get those
down or those fundamentals down and then
from there try and uh tackle interviews
so I've kind to formulate the videos on
my channel in the same way because at
the end of the day everything that I'm
doing on my channel is just a reflection
of how I'm learning I'm I'm not a master
of any of these things and you know I'm
making videos in real times I'm also
trying to learn and I felt that it
helped me a lot to First be like okay
I'm going to get you know the Core
Concepts down of what's indeed IIA plus
like a little bit more I think I made
some videos on some MIT distributed
systems class content as well and then
once I have those down I think I'll be a
a lot more prepared to actually go and
like tackle interview questions in
particular so it could be DDA that you
read maybe that's going to be too dense
maybe you prefer to read some summary of
it maybe there's another book that I'm
not sure of if you go on the Internet or
on blind there are there are a few
different books that people talk about
where DDI is probably the the most
popular one but you know just some some
book that really explains like what a
database is what partitioning is what
replication is uh stuff like that yeah
it seems like there there kind of like
this top- down approach which is go and
find questions that you're likely to
answer and go and see if you can get
coverage of them which is going to be
very shallow and brittle I think it
about the best that you can do in the
timing and then you've talking about
this Bottoms Up approach where you learn
all of the concepts and gradually built
it sounds like actually your own
approach has been kind of this middle
out if I can abuse this Silicon Valley
where you're kind of finding some of the
fundamentals but they're attached to
things that you want to learn or that
you are trying to solve for and at least
for me that's been the most effective
because I I don't know that you can
approach system design learning from few
first principles obviously without those
foundations you're not going to be able
to make much success it's also it needs
to be grounded in something that you
understand and you're going to connect
it to that practical part is so
important and I'm glad to hear that
that's also been a Common Thread
throughout your learning I totally agree
and I think if I had to add anything
else it would just be you know to to
keep building personal projects on the
side because you'll discover Concepts
that you don't understand and you can
kind of tie those into systems design a
little bit so you know you'll start to
understand why you need a database or or
why you need something built a certain
way why you need a couple of application
servers instead of just one so I don't I
don't know I felt that uh things like
that helped to really give a lot more
context to the whole thing rather than
just like learning a bunch of vocabulary
terms yeah I love it are Are there
specific personal projects that you've
attempted outside of work that you felt
were were valuable and taught you a lot
nothing nothing too crazy since college
for example but literally so much is
like being you know I'm going to deploy
a website and I'm going to have a
database and I'm going to have a server
to literally understand like okay this
thing is persistent this thing is what's
answering my application requests like
for a lot of people when they're going
through college and and you're writing
code it's just going to be like data
structures for the most part or
operating systems and the jump from
doing that to actually making like a
user-facing application is a lot less
trivial than looking back it it seems at
times like you know the first time that
I went on YouTube and I was like how do
you build a program and react and have a
back end and let people log in like
that's that's actually a really big step
I feel like from what most people are
working on in college and uh takes a lot
of work to get from from point A to
point B there definitely I think one of
the challenges with personal projects
for a lot of people it's just getting to
that level of scale that things start to
get interesting so certainly if you've
never deployed a website by all means
but once you get to that spot where
you're trying to figure out how to deal
with hot shards as an example or how to
scale and distribute load you often
times don't have that problem ready if
you're in a big company you have it
everywhere but as an individual you
don't I remember some of my earliest
personal projects were actually web
scrapers and my whole goal was I'm going
to assemble a ton of data so that I can
try all these cool approaches I I
basically need the big data so I can can
have problems that I can go and test my
Solutions on I'm not sure if you had
anything Sim more but it very much feels
like for a lot of personal projects that
is kind of the bottleneck that's where
you'll start to suffer if you don't have
a job already where you can test those
those uh Concepts that's a great point I
I don't personally but that's actually a
really great idea on your end is to
basically just manufacture them for
yourself and mess around so yeah I like
that a lot well you've touched on um a
lot of old Tech and some Modern stuff I
love the the Tik Tok video ml system
design is one of my sweet spots I'm
wearing my machine learning shirt today
as well as you know some ancient pieces
I won't say that Hadoop is ancient but I
remember some of the content that you
had around there I'd love to get an
impression from you as someone who's
been exposed to you know a lot of the
history of system design what are some
trends that you're seeing either things
that people used to be doing and are no
longer doing and so for instance
candidates should try to avoid or things
that you think are hot and are going to
be really likely setting the stage for
the next few iterations of system
design right off the bat I'm I'm going
to caveat this statement with saying who
knows because you know despite there
being Trends you know I think there are
tons of companies that are doing things
in the the quote unquote oldfashioned
way of doing them so for example my
company is still running Hadoop on Prem
and that's the that's the underlying
Object Store for all of our data so wait
hdfs or what is this hdfs yes oh hdfs is
great battle tested battle tested
exactly the first one I'm going to say
maybe is um using more of these like
stateful consumer Technologies and to be
clear clear like this isn't something
that arose yesterday like this has been
happening for a while but I I feel like
just the number of people who are like
I've never heard of anyone using like
spark structured streaming or or flank
very much and I don't know it see it
seems pretty cool to me and it
definitely seems like it's being used
more and more in production systems as
opposed to just like building your own
consumer and then you know building your
own replay mechanism of persisting state
to some data store on your own so I
think that's maybe one of them again not
super new but just has to be done a lot
of these are going to be kind of focused
on the analytics space cuz I think
that's where I'm finding a lot of my
passion these days but just you know
like columnar storage as opposed to
robow based stuff you know you'd be
surprised but like spark operates on row
to row and that's funny because know
it's a big data tool and so it should be
operating on you know individual entries
one column at a time to speed things up
so there are a lot of uh you know
projects going on to to make that happen
we kind of touched upon this already but
just the concept of the separate scaling
between storage and compute in Cloud
databases putting all these files in S3
and then having a separate compute layer
because uh CPU is now the bottleneck as
opposed to network so pulling a bunch of
parket files out of S3 is not too bad I
think this one is more of an Ode to uh
some of the the the OG database guys but
I guess it seems like well I don't know
maybe maybe this is less true in
practice I feel like no SQL is losing
some steam maybe I'm wrong about that
and I feel like everyone's just like
okay yeah sql's good again but maybe I'm
wrong there like I I've got very few
examples to say that I'm just basing
this off what I see at my current
company and things like that Vibes of
the people that you you you're you're
hearing I I think so okay and if we
actually want to go like last like three
to four years as opposed to like last 10
years uh I would say something like
Iceberg you know Open Table formats
Iceberg hoodie Delta Lake instead of
running all these Hive tables just saves
you a lot of time in terms of listing
all the you know different files of the
table allows you to update your metadata
transactionally which is very very
useful a lot of benefits there I think
the arrow project is insanely impactful
or at least has the potential to be
having one stand ardized format to
communicate columnar data both in memory
and over the network is massively
popular it's great for doing data
science with python or like polers great
for sending data over the network from
say one data warehouse over to another
for more processing uh I think arrow is
just really really cool in general and
then the last one uh I'm going to give
you your flowers on uh because I think
you've really opened up my mind more to
this is uh maybe you don't have to
distribute stuff all the time maybe CPUs
are just getting good enough and you can
run on you know one Noe and that's
okay yeah exactly and vertical scaling
is backs tons of cool projects going on
out there I really know nothing about
the machine learning space but I think a
lot of these are starting to be
integrated there because effectively
that's always just going to be a big bit
data bottleneck as well you hit on a lot
of cool stuff there I love the stateful
streaming uh approaches they basically
taken a lot of best practices that have
been accumulated over the years and put
them in nice Frameworks that you can use
I think Flink is a great example of this
and then all of the examples that you've
given so far are Apache projects it's
been crazy to watch how effective Apache
has been at incubating good ideas and
then giving them standard status that
can be used I think iceberg is the
perfect example of this where you've got
so many vendors in the Big Data space
but having an open source reasonably
open standard that everyone can
integrate with means that you know the
floor raises and that's probably how we
should expect technology to evolve for
you know decades to come it's great to
see everything just getting more uh more
open as well like you said because uh
you know the the less vendor lock in
that you have the better you know if
you're using icebergs your metadata
layer you can switch between types of uh
query executors that you're using so
you're not necessarily locked into to
trino or spark or flank or anything like
that which is great perfect so I wanted
to kind of put you on the spot I'd love
to hear about your opinion on databases
and let me just kind of set the stage
like as a generalist software engineer
who might be put on kind of any problem
space and you want to be able to be
effective in in any of them what would
you say are like your top four databases
maybe the top four categories and then
who's the leading Contender oh top four
categories is tough oh man I was going
to say I'm I'm almost like a little
bothered by this question because I
think that uh who knows what a top
database is but more so just no you have
to answer I have to answer this this is
my channel fair enough you're gonna have
to kick me off it's gonna be like zinsky
yesterday but anyway point is I don't
know that there's really ever
necessarily a top database I think
there's a top database for a given
situation and it's not even necessarily
based off performance uh you know every
company has their own standards there's
operational knowhow that's built up
between the people working there and uh
Sometimes the best database for the task
is going to be the one that you already
know how to use or have tools built
around and so I think in your last
question I mentioned a bunch of
databases that I personally really
interested in I think are great and I'll
you know I'll toss into like whatever
spanner is always going to be great
there's bunch of stuff like the for
transactional stuff but it's probably
expensive so everything has pros and
and I think that looking at your
specific organizational structure what
you're able to spend how realistic
things are to deploy is just as
important as like random performance
characteristics of given database and uh
I think that's that's another thing is
you know as much as you can make all of
these hypothetical statements in a
systems assign interview where you have
an idealized uh problem where you know
you can pick whatever database and and
just be like we're going to use this one
the reality of the situation is you know
what your organization is comfortable
with maybe the cloud vendors that they
already have deals with or or things
like that are also just going to take
major precedent when it comes to to
making a data store Choice yeah
definitely tons of trade-offs to
navigate and a lot of the constraints
are completely outside your control
there's not really an optimal in some
sense this is actually a good lesson in
general for people who are entering
system design interviews is that there
isn't a right answer to almost any
question I think there definitely some
of our audience got the impression that
there is some optimal solution and the
reality is there's not there's just
trade-offs all the way down and there's
obviously a Paro Frontier you can make a
bad choice uh but the best one is often
times ill toine so I actually love the
fact that you deferred on the the
question here yeah and I think you the
biggest thing is you just you don't want
to build and put engineering hours into
into scale that you don't need as well
so like you mentioned everything could
possibly just be handled with one uh one
postgress database and then life is good
and you don't need to make all these
crazy decisions so it's really only uh
when you're at the frontier of of
optimizing stuff that things get super
crazy I think a lot of the times and uh
yeah sometimes life can be pretty simple
which is nice yeah well and simplicity
is your friend as a software engineer of
course companies always like to
interview for that Talent that's going
to lead the charge when they are at that
Frontier and they want to go and try
that new problem that no one solved
before but I think for the reality of
most Engineers there're solving problems
that are reasonably common and and there
are some good solutions that are already
out there so choose some boring stuff
because it's going to work out pretty
well for you to that end and I'm going
to maybe flip a bit and and be less
practical but I'd love to hear what has
been the most interesting system that
you've covered recently or the most
interesting technology I think you know
there's obviously a lot of very useful
Technologies some that have very broad
appeal but just from like pure learning
or New Concepts that are being brought
to the table what would you say maybe
over the past six months to a year have
you covered that you would say tops the
list sure well I think I guess I would
maybe split this into two categories I
think there were like the the best reads
in terms of papers because they're you
know well written and fairly easy to
understand I think you know most
Engineers regardless of how much thought
they've put into distributed systems
could understand them so for that you
know I think I would give the the Kafka
and the Flink paper a pretty big shout
out um just because uh there's no like
crazy compiler optimizations that
they're doing or at least they're not
really touching upon them all the terms
are pretty easy to look up and figure
out what's going on they're not super
long papers super common Technologies as
well and I I think that's part of the
reason that I feel so like evangelized
by by both of those Technologies it's
just like really nice papers and and
easy to consume as a as a reader and
understand why they're so special a lot
of people are using them in terms of
just like projects I'm excited about I
was getting out this one a bit but the
whole uh Arrow ecosystem in general I
guess if I if I dive into it for like a
minute basically it is a standardized
memory format for representing columnar
data so rather than representing your
data in row by row uh and basically
having a BC next to one another where a
B and C are all different entries in the
same row you would basically have A1 A2
A3 B1 B2 B3 where those are different
columns that'll compress things for you
using tactics like dictionary and run
length encoding and uh you know not only
do you have a standardized format in
memory which is really nice for passing
data from one process to another on the
same machine uh but you've also got
Arrow flight which does the same exact
thing except it's passing data over the
network without doing any uh extra
serialization or deserialization or
copying uh so it's making things really
efficient a lot of tooling is getting
built around it and I think it's going
to be very exciting in the Big Data
space in the next few years super cool
yeah the idea of not copying data I
don't think people realize until you
actually go and look at the
implementations of a lot of these
Technologies how many copies are created
especially during Network calls and it
can usually be the the biggest
bottleneck for the performance of a lot
of these systems absolutely awesome you
know plenty plenty of benchmarking went
into that and uh now they have this
great tool got it I want to talk a
little bit about career and how your
learning has intersected with you know
your your real job I think there's this
impression from some Engineers that you
know I'm not going to be designing large
scale systems all the time or maybe my
work is mostly code and Bug fixes on
call issues as opposed to design which I
might do once in a blue moon have you
found that to be true for you personally
and then where have you found like the
knowledge that you've acred both as the
creation of your channel and just your
personal curiosity come to be kind know
most effective in you doing your job I
guess uh I'll have to take a trip down
memory lane for a second and I guess
outline what I've done in work so I
started out my career working at Google
again as a software engineer on like a
data analytics team or data engineering
team so building a lot of pipelines
right off the bat there I think when
you're working uh an environment that's
handling a lot of data and you're trying
to write efficient pipelines having an
understanding of what things like data
locality and collocated joins and
indices really do for you is hugely
impactful I was really fortunate that
Google gave us a great set of profiling
tools to determine what was making ay
slow or at least identify where the
bottlenecks were in a given piece of
code that I had wrote and I feel like
you know having these kind of
fundamentals of just how big data and
databases Works in general why it helps
you to sort certain pieces of data why
it helps you to partition your data on a
certain key massively helped me to build
things that were more efficient and then
also I even had people who are higher
levels on on my team that you know were
less familiar with these areas as well
and I was able to help them out with it
as well so I I I felt like I was able to
make a pretty big impact off the bat and
I able to present to my team I think
there are a lot of huge benefits there
at uh at my current job in in prop
trading I think it's more of a situation
where it's like if you want to seek out
roles where you're doing more
architecture related stuff you certainly
can I think there are a lot of areas
where it's more so just you know about
writing Clee code and and functional
code than it is about distributed
architecture but at the same time I
think because there are a lot of people
who have spent more time focusing on
that it's also something that has at
time been neglected and so I've been
able to identify certain areas of our
code base where I felt like we could be
making better architectural decisions in
terms of which technology we use or in
terms of data distribution or something
like that and I feel like it's allowed
me to pursue some really interesting
opportunities in my company and then
jump uh Jump Around different teams as a
result and kind of continue to pursue
these passions so in general maybe it's
not always going to be the case that
every engineer at you know these fan
companies or whatever is going to be
working on distributed systems I mean
tons of you know mobile designers
front-end designers all this other stuff
and just like normal back ends as well
that aren't huge tools but I also think
that you know these problems are very
common at these companies and you can
totally seek them out and uh work on
them if you want to and you find them
interesting yeah I like the contrast
there also and you kind of making this
part of your job versus this being
implicitly part of your job I'm kind of
curious how you avoid this trap that I
find at least from a career perspective
some Engineers find themselves in where
they're in some sense making
um they creating problems and and
solutions that maybe don't need to exist
I've certainly been guilty of this in my
career you know writing a bunch of
interesting code to solve problems that
probably weren't the most important
things to be solved by the business how
do you keep yourself honest how do you
you know deal with the problems that you
actually need to solve in order to be
effective and make your team successful
while also applying interesting things
where they're going to be most
valuable yeah that's a great question
admittedly there have been times where I
haven't right and uh you know I've tried
to really over-engineer something
because I'm passionate about it and I'm
excited and I think that's when as
someone who's more Junior it's really
helpful to have people with a bit more
experience on the team who can be like
listen what you're doing sounds really
interesting and I think it'll work well
but you know the the bottom line is this
just isn't going to help us make any
money and that's fair and I can respect
that I think as time goes on I'm
starting to get a bit more of a sense
for this myself uh and to be honest the
way I kind of try and keep it in my head
is just like reminding myself that I'm
lazy and being like well you know would
I want to waste my own developer hours
on this if I can get it done with a lot
less code or a lot less time or you know
make a more simple solution to this
problem and also it's one thing when
you're just over engineering something
on your own because you want to but when
you're the you know not I wouldn't say
victim is not the right term but when
you encounter someone else's overg
engineering I think it really yeah
shifts your perspective on it you're
like wait a second huh maybe this makes
me re-evaluate uh my own work and think
about what I could have done a little
bit more simply such that other years
come along and have an easier time
reading my code and maintaining it there
you go yeah you look at the get commit
history and you say Sarah I must have
been really bored in 20203 I wish her
boss would get there something more
interesting to work on exactly so you
know you find something from four years
ago and you're just like gez this is
really impressive but at the same time
why' you do this I kind of hate you for
this yeah it's it's definitely a bit of
a mix back awesome well I've got one
more question for you and you you you'd
mentioned chat GPT earlier and us it in
in an educational capacity but I'm
curious to get your perspective on the
impact that AI will have on system
design and that part of the software
engineer role into the future do you
find yourself being able to rely on AI
for some of the higher level questions
that you encounter practically and do
you find it to be useful in answering
deeper more reasoning heavy or trade-off
heavy questions especially as you do
these deep de right now at least in my
like day-to-day workflow AI has been
really really nice in terms of just
being like an enhanced search engine for
me and you know parsing existing
documentation I think it's not gotten to
the point at least in my experience
using I don't know chat gbt 40 I don't
think it's gotten to the point that I
would just be like hey what's the best
designed to go implement this problem
because uh like I was you know alluding
to before that is very much not a
question that can be answered by someone
without any actual organizational and
practical context within your company
like you know you have to go talk to
other people see what your existing you
know situation is what your
relationships are with certain uh
companies in terms of you know what you
can actually like pay for what you can't
pay for what you have to deploy open
source or how many resources you have
available or how much other departments
are willing to like pay for you to
implement this service and I mean in
theory yeah maybe you could pipe all
that information into chat GPT but just
like practically uh you know it can't do
it on its own uh with a quick question
you have to do a ton of of speaking to
other people and really flesh out
practical requirements in order to to
build real systems as opposed to you
know asking at high level tradeoffs I
also think that even in terms of
something like you know oh in theory
like take a database like Cassandra
that's really nice for right speeds
because it uses an LSM tree like I think
it does understand that part but then I
feel like it may have trouble
synthesizing like well how does that
make it uh compared to like mongod DB if
we were to choose that instead for this
problem maybe if someone like really
formally tried to outline these things
in like a very easy to parse way on one
document it could do so and then like
spit that logic out but again that's
that's all conceptual it's easy to say
in an interview but it it doesn't really
mean anything until you actually go and
like Benchmark stuff you know all this
like high level kind of handwavy stuff
that I like to say in my interview
videos it doesn't really matter because
you know maybe someone just wrote better
code than someone else and so despite
using a different engine type uh you
know that database is slower so at the
end of the day I feel like you know
maybe you can uh be skeptical of things
that it says but you're just going to
have to verify them at the end of the
day and you also have to make practical
decisions to to get systems that
actually work for your for your user
base and uh you know within your
organization I think there's some
practical takeaways for that as well you
you mentioned both there not usually
being an optimal answer a bunch of
trade-offs but also that the context was
incredibly important to the decisions
that you're making and if you think
about that as an engineer one of the key
ways that you're adding value is that
you're internalizing all of those pieces
and that has always been important but
it seems increasingly important as the
the tooling changes yeah and it's
something also that I I feel like I've
become more privy to especially the the
older I get and you know the more years
I get under my belt is just at the end
of the day you probably have
stakeholders and and making sure they're
really aligned with everything you're
doing is also very important so you know
maybe chat GPT can go and suggest you
some system but if your stakeholders
have' never heard of it and they're not
interested in it that doesn't really
much matter so there there are
definitely a lot of prce practical
concerns that come up when uh when
trying to build real systems and I think
that like you mentioned synthesis of all
these distinct sets of information and
navigating not only a lot of the
technical challenges here but also the
interpersonal challenges are very real
well Jordan this has been incredibly
insightful I I like how we covered both
your career journey and then how a lot
of your learning you were able to
basically broadcast this outward but
you're able to integrate this into the
career path that you You' Chosen and I
also like some of the thinking that you
had how it's evolved over the depth that
you're covering but also their practical
reality that there's no Optimal
Solutions and there's a lot of tradeoffs
and part of your job as an engineer is
to build content some of those things
are important for system design
interviews like especially at the staff
level these are things that your
interviewer is going to be looking for
do you recognize that these are
contextual and some of them will only be
important when you actually get on the
job just because you're right a
40-minute interview necessarily can't
cover all of the details that that are
there in so super grateful for you
spending the time with us and um yeah I
will drop uh Jordan's channel into the
description if you haven't subscribed
I'd highly recommend it awesome videos
coming out is it on a weekly basis you
seem to be pumping them out pretty
frequently I temp to to do weekly yeah
we'll see it may may drive me insane
soon but we're still doing weekly for
the moment that's
impressive awesome I appreciate it yeah
thanks again talk to you later yeah
thanks for having me